README.md, before:

PhlyRestfully: ZF2 Module for JSON REST Services
================================================

This module provides structure and code for quickly implementing RESTful APIs
that use JSON as a transport.

It allows you to create RESTful JSON APIs that use the following standards:

- [HAL](http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-kelly-json-hal-03), used for creating
  hypermedia links
- [Problem API](http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-nottingham-http-problem-02),
  used for reporting API problems

Resources
---------

A generic Resource class is provided, which provides the following operations:

- `create($data)`
- `update($id, $data)`
- `replaceList($data)`
- `patch($id, $data)`
- `delete($id)`
- `fetch($id)`
- `fetchAll()`

Each method:

- Ensures the incoming arguments are well-formed (primarily that `$data`
  is an `array` or `object`)
- Triggers an event with the incoming data
- Pulls the last event listener result, and ensures it is well-formed for the
  operation (typically, returns an `array` or `object`; in the case of
  `delete`, looks for a `boolean`; in the case of `fetchAll`, looks for an
  `array` or `Traversable`)

As such, your job is primarily to create a `ListenerAggregate` for the Resource
which performs the actual persistence operations.

Controller
----------

A generic ResourceController is provided which intercepts incoming requests
and passes data to the Resource. It then inspects the result to generate an
appropriate response.

In cases of errors, a Problem API response payload is generated.

When an item or collection is returned, a HAL payload is generated with
appropriate links.

In all cases, appropriate HTTP response status codes are generated.

The controller expects you to inject the following:

- Resource
- Route name that resolves to the resource
- HTTP OPTIONS the service is allowed to respond to (optional; by default,
  allows delete, get, head, patch, post, and put requests)
- Page size (optional; for paginated results. Defaults to 30.)
- `ServerUrl` view helper (optional; will lazy-instantiate if not found.)

Tying it Together
-----------------

You will need to create at least one factory, and potentially several.

Absolutely required is a unique controller factory for the
ResourceController. As noted in the previous section, you will have to inject
several dependencies. These may be hard-coded in your factory, or pulled as, or 
from, other services.

As a quick example:

```php
'PasteController' => function ($controllers) {
    $services   = $controllers->getServiceLocator();
    $events     = $services->get('EventManager');
    $listener   = new PasteResourceListener(new PasteMongoAdapter);
    $resource   = new PhlyRestfully\Resource();
    $resource->setEventManager($events);
    $events->attach($listener);

    $controller = new PhlyRestfully\ResourceController();
    $controller->setResource($resource);
    $controller->setRoute('paste/api');
    $controller->setHttpOptions(array(
        'GET',
        'HEAD',
        'POST',
    ));
    return $controller;
}
```

The above example instantiates a listener directly, and attaches it to the
event manager instance of a new Resource intance. That resource instance then
is attached to a new ResourceController instance, and the route and HTTP
OPTIONS are provided. Finally, the controller instance is returned.

Routes
------

You should create a segment route for each resource that looks like the
following:

```
/path/to/resource[/[:id]]
```

This single route will then be used for all operations.

LICENSE
=======

This module is licensed using the BSD 2-Clause License:

```
Copyright (c) 2013, Matthew Weier O'Phinney
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

- Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
  list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
- Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
```

Commit message:

Ensure docs are up-to-date
- Ensured the documentation matches current functionality
- Removed "PUT" from resource HTTP options (`replaceList` is something
  that should be used with care)

README.md, after:

PhlyRestfully: ZF2 Module for JSON REST Services
================================================

This module provides structure and code for quickly implementing RESTful APIs
that use JSON as a transport.

It allows you to create RESTful JSON APIs that use the following standards:

- [HAL](http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-kelly-json-hal-03), used for creating
  hypermedia links
- [Problem API](http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-nottingham-http-problem-02),
  used for reporting API problems

Resources
---------

A generic Resource class is provided, which provides the following operations:

- `create($data)`
- `update($id, $data)`
- `replaceList($data)`
- `patch($id, $data)`
- `delete($id)`
- `deleteList($data = null)`
- `fetch($id)`
- `fetchAll()`

Each method:

- Ensures the incoming arguments are well-formed (primarily that `$data`
  is an `array` or `object`)
- Triggers an event with the incoming data
- Pulls the last event listener result, and ensures it is well-formed for the
  operation (typically, returns an `array` or `object`; in the case of
  `delete` and `deleteList`, looks for a `boolean`; in the case of `fetchAll`,
  looks for an `array` or `Traversable`)

As such, your job is primarily to create a `ListenerAggregate` for the Resource
which performs the actual persistence operations.

Controller
----------

A generic ResourceController is provided which intercepts incoming requests
and passes data to the Resource. It then inspects the result to generate an
appropriate response.

In cases of errors, a Problem API response payload is generated.

When an item or collection is returned, a HAL payload is generated with
appropriate links.

In all cases, appropriate HTTP response status codes are generated.

The controller expects you to inject the following:

- Resource
- Route name that resolves to the resource
- Event identifier for allowing attachment via the shared event manager; this
  is passed via the constructor (optional; by default, listens to
  `PhlyRestfully\ResourceController`)
- "Accept" criteria for use with the `AcceptableViewModelSelector` (optional;
  by default, assigns any `*/json` requests to the `RestfulJsonModel`)
- HTTP OPTIONS the service is allowed to respond to, for both collections and
  individual items (optional; head and options are always allowed; by default,
  allows get and post requests on collections, and delete, get, patch, and put
  requests on items)
- Page size (optional; for paginated results. Defaults to 30.)

Tying it Together
-----------------

You will need to create at least one factory, and potentially several.

Absolutely required is a unique controller factory for the
ResourceController. As noted in the previous section, you will have to inject
several dependencies. These may be hard-coded in your factory, or pulled as, or 
from, other services.

As a quick example:

```php
'PasteController' => function ($controllers) {
    $services   = $controllers->getServiceLocator();
    $events     = $services->get('EventManager');
    $listener   = new PasteResourceListener(new PasteMongoAdapter);
    $resource   = new PhlyRestfully\Resource();
    $resource->setEventManager($events);
    $events->attach($listener);

    $controller = new PhlyRestfully\ResourceController();
    $controller->setResource($resource);
    $controller->setRoute('paste/api');
    $controller->setResourceHttpOptions(array(
        'GET',
        'POST',
    ));
    $controller->setItemHttpOptions(array(
        'GET',
    ));
    return $controller;
}
```

The above example instantiates a listener directly, and attaches it to the
event manager instance of a new Resource intance. That resource instance then
is attached to a new ResourceController instance, and the route and HTTP
OPTIONS are provided. Finally, the controller instance is returned.

Routes
------

You should create a segment route for each resource that looks like the
following:

```
/path/to/resource[/[:id]]
```

This single route will then be used for all operations.

LICENSE
=======

This module is licensed using the BSD 2-Clause License:

```
Copyright (c) 2013, Matthew Weier O'Phinney
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

- Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
  list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
- Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
```
